In this lesson, we're going to talk about
the concept of the anonymous function.
So let's get started by first opening up a
new Python program.
So we're talking about anonymous
functions, and
an anonymous function is a function that
doesn't have a name per say, but is based
on whats called a lambda form.
Now, I'm not gonna go into all the details
of what lambda refers to.
There's a whole history, going back all
the way to
the formation of the lambda calculus back
in the '30s.
But, let us just say that functional
programming languages such as LISP and
SCHEME and ML have all used lambda as a
means of creating functions for years.
To understand how a anonymous function
works, I
need to provide you with a simple example.
You remember from the last lesson that we
discovered that functions are full objects
in Python.
So for example, just to refresh your
memory, we
created a square function, which we've
seen many times.
and then we assigned it to a variable,
like so.
What we could do, to save us some of the
work of creating a function, if we're
going to assign it to a variable, is
we can create the function as an anonymous
function.
So, let me demonstrate how to do that.
We'll use the word square as our variable
name.
So, to create an anonymous function we
first use
the word lambda followed by the parameter
that we want.
In this case we're just going to have one
parameter.
We'' use x.
That's a very common parameter naming
technique with
anonymous functions is to use single
letter parameters.
Followed by a colon, followed by an
expression.
And that's very important.
Let me space that a little bit better.
And that's a very important restriction on
anonymous functions in Python.
You can only create an anonymous function
that consists of an expression.
If this were an advanced course, I could
show you how
to get around that restriction using some
fairly obscure programming techniques,
but, for the purposes of this course,
we'll stick with the
idea that a anonymous function can only
consist of an expression.
And so for example, x times x, is a
perfectly good expression.
And that becomes the body of the anonymous
function.
So now where we want to use the function,
we use the variable name instead and pass
the parameter.
So for example, we can say print square
two, and that should display the number
four.
Let's save it.
Run the code, and there's four, and so
that's really all you need to know.
Now, just seeing this example doesn't
really
show you the proper use of anonymous
functions.
One place an anonymous function can come
in very handy is with
the map high order function that we looked
at in the last lesson.
So for example, it's coming out this code.
Let's go back to the example I gave you in
the last lesson.
We had a list of numbers, and we wanted
to create a new list of those numbers
squared.
So what I can do right here instead of
going
to the trouble of creating the square
function I can just.
Use this anonymous function to square each
number in the list.
And by doing that I've saved myself the
trouble
of having to define square, and I can
replace
that with this anonymous function, and put
it in
the same location as the first argument to
map.
So let's display the result to see that it
works.
And then we'll save it.
Run our code.
And there's our numbers squared.
There are of course more advanced uses of
anonymous functions,
but they go a bit beyond the scope of this
course.
So, what I'd like to do now is.
Leave the topic of anonymous functions per
se.
And move on to a continuation of what we
started with map.
And that's a discussion of higher order
functions.
And the two others that we're going to
look at are filter and reduce.
And we might look at map again also.
And we're gonna see those higher order
functions in the next lesson.